# Welcome to Cardano Developer Studio

This repository is the home of the Cardano Developer Studio, an all-in-one suite
designed to streamline the development process for Cardano blockchain
developers. Our goal is to provide an accessible, comprehensive set of tools and
resources to support developers in building dApps and smart contracts
efficiently on the Cardano platform.

## Table of Contents

- [Welcome to Cardano Developer Studio](#welcome-to-cardano-developer-studio)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Why Developers Need to Experiment with These Tools](#why-developers-need-to-experiment-with-these-tools)
  - [What is included](#what-is-included)
  - [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)
  - [Docker Containers](#docker-containers)
  - [Development Container in VS Code](#development-container-in-vs-code)
  - [Running the CLI Main Script](#running-the-cli-main-script)
  - [Using the Docker Containers](#using-the-docker-containers)
  - [Plutus Smart Contracts Examples and Helpers Library](#plutus-smart-contracts-examples-and-helpers-library)
  - [Contribution](#contribution)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
  - [Ongoing Progress](#ongoing-progress)

## Documentation

**Gitbook**

https://protofire-docs.gitbook.io/developer-studio/

## Features

- Docker Compose Configurations: Simplify setup and integration of all necessary
  tools.
- Script Tool with Menus: Navigate, configure, and run various tools through an
  intuitive menu system.
- Pre-built Smart Contract Examples: Access a suite of example contracts that
  demonstrate various functionalities in Plutus, helping you get started
  quickly.
- Comprehensive Testing Tools: Utilize testing tools for resource consumption,
  transaction size analysis, and contract evaluation to ensure compliance with
  Plutus constraints.
- Dockerized Tools Ready for Use: All tools are dockerized, ensuring a
  consistent and streamlined development environment across different setups.

## Why Developers Need to Experiment with These Tools

Experimentation leads to innovation. By getting hands-on experience with the Cardano Node, Wallet, and DB Sync, developers can push the boundaries of what's possible within the Cardano ecosystem. It's not just about building applications; it's about understanding the intricacies of blockchain technology and leveraging that knowledge to create solutions that are secure, efficient, and user-friendly.

For instance, experimenting with the Cardano Node can help developers optimize transaction fees, understand block propagation, and secure their applications against common blockchain threats. Learning the ins and outs of the Cardano Wallet can lead to the development of new wallet features, improved user security practices, and the integration of ADA payments into e-commerce platforms. And with Cardano DB Sync, the possibilities for blockchain data analytics, reporting tools, and real-time monitoring services are endless.

## What is included

See [What is included](./docs/README_INCLUDED.md)

## Installation and Setup

See [Installation and Setup](./docs/README_INSTALLATION.md)

## Docker Containers

See [Docker Containers](./docs/README_DOCKER.md)

## Development Container in VS Code

See [Development Container in VS Code](./docs/README_VSCODE.md)

## Running the CLI Main Script

See [Running the CLI Main Script](./docs/README_SCRIPT.md)

## Using the Docker Containers

See [Using the Docker Containers](./docs/README_CONTAINERS.md)

## Plutus Smart Contracts Examples and Helpers Library

See  [Examples and Helpers Library](./examples/README.md)

## Contribution

Contributions to the Cardano Developer Studio are welcome. Whether you're
looking to fix bugs, add new features, or improve documentation, your help is
appreciated. Please see our contribution guidelines for more information.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the
[LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgements

We express our deepest gratitude to the Cardano community for their unwavering
support and valuable contributions to this project. This work is part of a
funded project through Cardano Catalyst, a community-driven innovation platform.
For more details on the proposal and its progress, please visit our proposal
page on [IdeaScale](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/110047).

## Ongoing Progress

Welcome to the beginning of a journey! You're looking at the first milestone and
release of our Cardano Developer Studio, where the foundations are set, but the
building is far from over. As we continue to grow and evolve, expect to see an
array of new menus, tools, and functionalities rolled out in future updates.
Each release will be packed with features designed to make the Cardano
development experience smoother, more intuitive, and increasingly powerful. Stay
tuned, and grow with us, as we expand the possibilities and support you, the
builders of tomorrow's Cardano ecosystem. Your feedback, ideas, and
contributions will shape the road ahead, so let's forge this path together!
